---
layout: single
title:  "Theranos"
date:   2019-03-22 00:26:11 -0500
categories:
- Trust
- Reputation
tags:
- Theranos
- Trust
- Reputation
- Identity
---

Last week, I read John Carreyrou's _Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup_ . It's a very  Of course, there are many things that were wrong like fraud, deception, and abuse in multiple levels. But what I found fascinating was how far the Theranos went without getting caught.

There are so many instances of checkpoints that should be bypassed had not been for some enablers. But these enablers have reputation and authority to overwrite the common controls.

Walgreens allowed Theranos to have an area to perform their analysis in Arizona and was really to rollout nationwide without verifying that the results of the analysis were accurate. Not only that, but they paid millions in "innovation fees" and other millions in loans to Theranos. As much as there's pressure from competition and future profits, Walgreens reputation about how they treat their customers is at stake. When doing a transaction with another requires different levels of trust. If I buy a pair of socks, I'm probably not care much who produces it, as long as I rely on the store. In retail, many times the channel gives the legitimacy the product brand doesn't have. The more personal the product, the more important trust is. Healthcare is probably requires the most important level of trust thus why the industry is so regulated. Any person would expect that a procedure done in Walgreens would have an approval from a regulatory entity by default, or at the very least their own. Walgreens should've never allowed to install Theranos booths without certification of the accuracy of the tests.

Investing is a business of trust, especially early investing. You give money to a team with the expectations of returns considering the high probability of failure. However, we know that sourcing is one of the biggest hurdles for investors. A lot of them rely on their network to do find startups. Which makes sense from a trust point of view, easier to do business with companies already vetoed. I'd dare to say most of the largest new companies in the US have gone through this capital raising process and has relied on networks to gain trust and fundraise. There is certainly some due diligence, especially in later stages, but in this case, Theranos was so secretive that most of that the bulk of the vetoing came from word of mouth and convincing others rather than due diligence.

As the company grows, those risks are dissipating by finding the adequate team, a market fit, expanding to the market potential or finding new segments, the potential gets unraveled and the risk approaches to the ones of similar established companies. It is clear than in highly regulated industries, regulatory risk is one of the most important ones.  

Newspapers.

The board.

The family reputation.

Inside the company and compartmentalization of information.

I recommend this book to anyone with interest in business and relations.
